Back in JSFiddle, time to understand what happens behind the scenes when we create a new vue instance
like we do here with the new vue keyword. Of course I already explained that it takes a template and
updates the dom based on that template
but behind the scenes, it follows through a complex lifecycle update into which we may tap in to execute
certain code,
let's have a look at this lifecycle.
The vuejs instance lifecycle starts with the new vue constructor, there
we then execute the first lifecycle method to which we can listen, I will show this in a second,
beforeCreate,
this is as the name implies before the vue instance is created. Thereafter it initializes the data and
events we pass to the object or with the object to the vue instance and it then creates the instance and
calls the created lifecycle hook method to which we can also listen or to which we can also tap in. Thereafter,
it compiles the template or it derives the template from our html code if we use el or mount,
so it either uses the template provided in the template property or the one it derives,
we saw that before in action. Then beforeMount is reached,
this is as the name implies called right before this template which is rendered is mounted to the
real dom, is written to the real dom,
so it's not there yet.
Now we replace the element, so this element in the vue instance with the compiled template,
it's still not mounted but now vuejs compiled the template, inserted all the values for the string
interpolations, set up all the bindings,
so converted it to real html code so to say
but still behind the scenes
but now we mount it to the dom.
So we take this compiled template which is exactly the html code we will see in the dom and writes
it to the dom,
now our vue instance is hooked up to the dom and is or can be seen there.
It's not done though,
we get an ongoing lifecycle which we can tap into multiple times, which is if some data changes and the
dom is re-rendered, here we get the beforeUpdate lifecycle hook right before we re-rendered the dom,
so after we saw that data changed but before that dom is re-rendered or a part of the dom I should
say and the updated lifecycle which is obviously called after this part in the dom was updated.
We also got the beforeDestroy lifecycle right before an instance is destroyed,
I will show you how an instance may get destroyed in a second.
This is the vuejs lifecycle and it then ends with the destroyed lifecycle hook into which we can
tap in right after the instance was destroyed.
All these methods here can be used to execute some code in the different phases of the lifecycle, for
example whenever we want to execute the code
once the dom were a part of the dom has been updated, we could do an updated lifecycle hook. Well let's
see it in action in the next lecture.